COMP 3005 PROJECT NOTES

SESSION 1 NOVEMBER 12

CONFIGURE WORKSPACE
 - VSCODE
 - LIVESHARE
 - GITHUB?

Requirement Notes:

    User can search by:
        Book name, Author name, ISBN, Genre (etc)
        
    Data includes above and Publisher, number of pages, price, etc

    User must be registered to book store to check out

    WHen they order they put in an address, this can be different from the one they userd to setup account

    Tracking service!?
    All books shipped from one warehouse.

    Owner can add and remove books.

    ONLY OWNER CAN ACCESS SPECIAL PAGE!
        This is where they can add remove books.
        How do we authenticate?
    
    Application can automatically order books if the quantity of books is below a specified threshold.
        (SEND EMAIL, console.log())
    
    Bonus features?
        - Pattern matching booknames
        - Google maps link?
        - adding a favicon
    
    GOALS
    - Configure GIT REPO
    - COMPLETE SQL DATABASE (DEAD DATE: DECEMBER 1ST)
        - How do we do this?
            - Come up with relational model
            - Design Normalizations (agree on dependencies etc) (!!!)
            - Draw the ER Diagram
            - Reduce to Relations
            - Code the SQL Database
    - COMPLETE SIMPLE VIEWING OF BOOKS (DEAD DATE: DECEMBER 8TH)
        - What does this mean?
            - It works in browser
            - You can search by book name, author name, ISBN, genre
            - You can query to the database
            - Queries are generated by user clicks (we don't need to define them)
            - (No need for login at this stage)
    - COMPLETE 'FULL' FEATURES (DEAD DATE: DECEMBER 15TH)
        - User can order
        - User can checkout
        - User can add to cart
        - User can track
        - Differences between Owner and User
        - Owner can add
        - Owner can do special owner things
    - COMPLETE ADDITIONAL FEATURES:
        -???????

Deadline?
- DEC 1 (wednesday) database done
- DEC 8, (wednesday) Simple Query features


NOTES 11/28/2021

FRONTEND:
- Use BILLING INFO and SHIPPING INFO from 'user' relation to autofill checkout!
- cart should be entirely done on front-end, just make a list of the stuff (more on this later)
- using heroku to store db, and node-postgres and pg to access the db

ASK TA ABOUT:
- Is book_order going to be redundant? We think so. (double diamond) YES
    You can have a book without an order, but an order needs books...

- Do we need to show all attributes in relation schema? How do we show composites? NO

- I think we need to show FD's for the whole table, not just for individual
relations i.e show what just the user_id implies for the WHOLE table. (SHOW FD's document) NO WE DONT

- Do we need more about banking? NO WE DONT

COMPARE TO ER_DIAGRAM FROM A3?
We aren't actually gonna make a table for book_order, it just exists in the relation
cause book_order uses the ISBN from book? How do we illustrate that in ER
In schema, order will get isbn, the primary key of the owner relationship, order primary key will be isbn AND orderID, if we want to select all books IN order, we select * from order where orderID = something, if we want one specific order for one specific book, select * from order where orderID= something AND isbn = something

NOTES 12/01/2021
ADD pubCut to diagram book
ADD Primary Keys to diagram
ADD Date to userOrder
    - WE WILL NEED TO USE THIS TO FULFILL THE "TRIGGERS"
    expected outcome (see discord slide)
    - Query all the books of the same title sold in the previous month.
    - What type should date be? We want to be able to query by month
ADD status to user order
    - we need something to know if the order is complete or not
    - also, how will we update the order to be complete?
        (manually is probably fine)
NOTES 12/02/2021
When making user_id, have a U as first letter ex: U12334123
when making publisher_id, have a P as first letter ex: P1231233
when making author_id, have an A as first letter: ex: A123131411
NOTES 12/03/2021
book needs an author, we need to add this limitation
we need to query by INNER JOINS, NOT natural joins
example to 'natural join' user_account and user_order
select * from user_order inner join user_account using (user_id)
NOTES 12/04/2021
removed primary key user_id from user_order, as order_id will be totally unique
NOTES 12/09/2021
Added date to user_order
Think about adding bank number??? Depends on what we find when implementing

NOTES 12/10/2021
added sql views and functions, should be enough to generate reports.

NOTES 12/11/2021
Make a null search parameter, if they enter nothing, should refresh the page (achieved by adding a get for /bookSearchWhatever/) where whatever is the given search (genre, title, etc)